# Backup-180
This tool/script helps in creating backup of certain file categories.  
Till now it provides option to create backup of Image files, Video files, Audio files, Documents, Executables, Compressions etc.

# How it works
When you select the option to backup, after running the tool.   
It searches for all the files falls in that selected category and if it finds any so it copies that file into a certain location.  
Locations this tool will scan and location where to save the backup is determined by `settings.conf` file.

# settings.conf File
It has two variables `scan_paths` and `saving_path`

## scan_paths variable
This variable defines all the paths those will gonna scanned by this tool in order to backup desired file category, of course you don't want to copy whole filesystem or maybe if you want to... Well you can define that into this variable.  
Multiple path can be assigned to this variable saperated by **:**
```For example
scan_paths="path1:path2:path3"
```

## saving_path variable
It defines where to save the backup created by tool, like if your system has another disk partition where you will only gonna save backups so you can link path to that disk into this variable.  
Note that when backup is saved into the given path it in saved under `backup_files` folder created automatically by this tool.

# Installation
## For Termux (android)
Use the given below commands for one time, it will install and start the tool.
```
apt update && apt upgrade -y
pkg install git -y
git clone https://github.com/PowerPizza/Backup-180.git
cd Backup-180
chmod +x backup180.sh
./backup180.sh
```
If you closed termux by chance and need to restart the tool so just use the command given below
```
./Backup-180/backup180.sh
```

## For Linux (PC)
_____ I Don't have PC for now _____

# Option zero
When you will the tool it will ask you to select option for category of file you want to pack (backup).
All options are quite obvious and can easily be understood except option zero.  
Till this time this options says `Pack Miscellaneous (other) Files` means it will backup all the other files that are not falling into any of category above it like `.got ignore`, `.temp` etc..

# Logs
Logs folder will be generated by this script automatically as you will run the script.  
This folder contains failure logs which have occurred during scanning the provided paths or copying the file into backup path.
So I think you should check this folder out for once after running the script.

# Limitations
* More the files on system more the time it will take to creating backup.
* Only for Linux or Termux.
* No GUI available.
* You have to manually open the `settings.conf` file and edit it properly.
